The Tears of the Falmer\
Massacre at Gandra

by Amadeo Veccini, Imperial Geograohical Society

The Snow Elven ruin of Gandra was once a major monastery devoted to the god Auri-El in the late Merethic Era, located in what is now the Rift, Province of Skyrim. Home to monk-prelates and knight-paladins, the shrine was one of the last known bastions of the Snow Elves on the Skyrim mainland.

There is some speculation that the knight-paladins stationed at Gandra were charged with the protection of Tarn Alasil, a sacred garden some sources have marked as fairly near to Gandra’s location. However, this is purely theoretical, as is the existence of Tarn Alasil itself. It is more likely that the knight-paladins were simply present to guard the monastery and its prelates from harm.

At some point during the early Dragon War era, the Snow Elf purges ordered by the cult’s wartime leaders came to Gandra. Kriin, a high priest of the Council, marched on the monastery and laid siege, with the drawn-out standoff lasting for some time as the elves’ resources slowly dwindled.

Determining that the defense of Gandra was a lost cause, Arch-Curate Althadan Vyrthur ordered his forces back to the central Chantry of Auri-El to the west. With Chantry forces in retreat, the few remaining monks and knight-paladins who elected to remain in defense of Gandra were unable to match the manpower of Kriin’s onslaught and were massacred by Dragon Cult warriors. 

Desite the victory, Kriin was killed during the assault. As Dragon Cult forces began to secure the monastery Kriin’s apprentice and eventual successor as councilor, Rahgot, was dispatched back to Bromjunaar to inform the High Council of his death.

Following the massacre, Gandra was turned into the burial chamber Fjerdhim for Kriin and his forces to commemorate the place where they fell in battle.

My recent expedition to the Rift has revealed ruins similar to contemporary descriptions of Gandra high in the mountains of the Rift, entirely inaccessible by traditional means. However, a Nordic ruin has been discovered at the base of the mountain, seemingly constructed around a Falmer wayshrine likely used as the primary entrance to the Gandra complex. As of yet, however, no method of opening the wayshrine has been determined, and so the ruins of Gandra remain a purely theoretical topic.
